---
title: Contributed/SUMO Traffic Modeler
permalink: /Contributed/SUMO_Traffic_Modeler/
---

!!! caution
    This tool is obsolete and no longer supported

SUMO Traffic Modeler by Leontios Papaleontiou is a graphical application
for setting up an activity-based demand. It is not longer developed by
the original author, and as it has some interesting features, we
included it into the release.

The tool is stored in a runnable .jar-file, you may simply double-click
on it on Windows to start it - it requires Java 6 to be installed. SUMO Traffic Modeler is located in {{SUMO}}\\bin.

There is not much documentation on it. What worked for me was:

- on the command line
  - having a given road network, reimport it using
    [netconvert](../netconvert.md) and save plain XML
    definitions using the **--plain-output** option. Make sure the prefix of the plain
    files is the same as the network's name.
- start the SUMO Traffic Modeler by double-clicking on it
- generate a project
  - choose File-\>New Project...
  - navigate to the folder the network/plain network definitions are
    located in for both, the project's name and for the network
    description
  - the network should appear
- set-up demand
  - click on "Traffic Layers" in the tree located on the right side
    of the window
  - add some demand definitions ("Flow", "Area Flow", "Hotspot")
  - you may alter the demands using the dialog on the right, bottom
    side of the window
- export the demand/simulation
  - choose Simulation-\>Export...
  - fill the dialog with some meaningful values

What you will obtain after those steps is a simulation configuration
file. The files referenced within this configuration are not yet build.
Even though SUMO Traffic Modeler has
a menu for setting up the paths to [netconvert](../netconvert.md)
and [duarouter](../duarouter.md), both application are not executed
automatically. Instead, you have to convert the trips generated by SUMO Traffic Modeler into routes by
yourself on the command line. You may reuse the network you have used to
set up SUMO Traffic Modeler, but you
probably have to build it using the given edges/nodes files if you have
pruned it during the work with SUMO Traffic Modeler.

If you convert the trips generated by SUMO Traffic Modeler into routes using
[duarouter](../duarouter.md), you may get the error "No connection
between '...' and '...' found.". To ignore it, call
[duarouter](../duarouter.md) with **--ignore-errors**.