---
title: GSoC2015
permalink: /GSoC2015/
---

[Here is the list of steps for the application.](https://www.google-melange.com/gsoc/document/show/gsoc_program/google/gsoc2015/help_page#1._How_does_a_mentoring_organization)
This page should answer all the questions on the list which need more
than yes/no or a list of names

## Describe your organization.

...

## Why do we apply

- outreach
- gain more developers

## Ideas list

*At a minimum, all the ideas on your Ideas List should include the
expected outcome of the project, a potential mentor, the skills and/or
languages required to complete the project, and a general "difficulty"
level.*

### Implementing macroscopic assignment models

- Goal: Have more than just iterative assignment (At least Lohse etc.)
- Mentor: @behrisch
- Skills: C++, some math
- Difficulty: medium

### VISSIM importer

- Convert at least basic VISSIM networks from recent versions into the
  SUMO format
- Mentor: @behrisch
- Skills: C++, XML
- Difficulty: medium

### Application Launcher

- Currently, the command line must be used frequently when preparing a
  simulation. To make life easier for many users, a launcher
  application for setting options and selecting input files via
  dialogs should be created. A wizard-type interface should be added
  to streamline common tasks.
- Mentor: @namdre
- Skills: python
- Difficulty: medium (easy, if experience with GUI frameworks exists)

### Intersection analysis

Smartphone app (android, of course\!) that can, from the position of the
phone, compute the corresponding intersection geometry by using
openstreetmap data, supported eventually by measurements from the phone
itself (distances e.g.). It then writes these data to a SUMO simulation
file, and has eventually the ability to collect additional traffic data.
Can be done e.g. as a simple counting app, via the video-camera, the
microphone, the magnetic field sensor,... (not all of these make sense,
of course, other sensors might be more suitable)

In addition to that, it runs a truly fast queueing model on the phone
itself to determine the optimal cycle time, green splits, delays, and
the like. This, too, can be supported by measurements from the
intersection, i.e. the saturation flows for the various connections.

- Mentor: @behrisch, Peter Wagner
- Skills: Android development
- Difficulty: medium (easy, if only a frontend to sumo is built)

### Left-hand traffic

Currently, SUMO only simulates right-hand traffic and therefore cannot
simulate some parts of the world.

- Mentor: @namdre
- Skills: C++
- Difficulty: medium (need to be able to read and comprehend quite a
  bit of existing code)

## Mentor selection criteria

## Plan for dealing with disappearing students

## Plan for dealing with disappearing mentors

## Steps for encouraging interaction with the community (pre, during and post)

## How to encouraging students to stick with the project